# Storage
## Azure Blob Storage
A cloud-based storage solution, optimized for storing massive amount of unstructured data. Unstructued data being data that doesn't adhere to a particular data model or definition, such as text or binary data.
Blob storage is designed for things like storing files to distributed access, streaming video and audio, serving images or documents directly to a browser, etc. Blob storage offers 3 types of blobs:
1. Block Blobs: Meant to store large binary or text data, block blobs are made up of blocks of data that can be managed individually
2. Page Blobs: These store random access files and virtual hard drive files which serve was disks for Azure Virtual Machines.
3. Append Blobs: Append blobs are optimized for append operations, making them suitable for scenarios like logging, where data is continuously added.

In terms of Python usage, objects stored in Blob Storage can be accessed via various Azure tools or an Azure Storage client library. These client libraries come in various languages, including Python. Through this you can do things like authenticate to Azure and authorize access to blob data, create a container, upload and list blobs in a container, download blobs and delete a container. 

## Azure Confidential Ledger
Azure confidental ledger (ACL) is a new and secure service for managing senstitive data records. ACL uses the Azure Confidental Computing platform and the Confidential Consortium Framework to provide a tamper-protected solution. Integrity of files are maintained through a consensus-based blockchain.
Examples of data that can be stored are:
1. Records relating to business transactions, such as money transfers
2. Updates to trusted assets, such as core applications or contracts
3. Admin and control changes, like granting access permissions
4. Operational IT and security events

Using Python you can do things like create a control plane client library, which allows you to perform operations on ledgers such as creation, modification, deletions, and getting the details of a specific ledger. Once a ledger exists, you can interact with it using a data plane client library, which will allow you to do things like retrieve messages you wrote to the ledger and see the latest transaction committed to the ledger.

# Compute
## Azure Virtual Desktop
Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) is a desktop and app virtualization service that runs on the cloud. When you run the service on Azure you are able to:
1. Set up a multi-session Windows 11 or 10 deployment, which is able to deliver a full Windows experience with scalability
2. Present Microsoft 365 Apps and optimize them to run in multi-user virtual scenarios
3. Bring your existing Remote Desktop Services and Windows Server desktops and apps to any computer
4. Virtualize desktops and apps
5. Manage desktops and apps from different Windows and OS with a unified management experience

Using Python, you can interact with AVD using the Azure SDK for Python and Azure Identity Library for authentication. This enables you to create, manage, scale and automate various aspects of AVD resources. For example, you can use Python to retrieve and analyze AVD-related data and metrics, which could be used to create custom monitoring and reporting solutions. Python could also be used to manage user assignments and access control for AVD workspaces.

## Azure Functions
Azure Functions is a on-demand cloud service which allows you to write less code, maintain less infrastructure and save on costs. Without the need to deploy and maintain servers, the cloud infrastructure provides up-to-date resources to keep applications running.Functions provides a comprhensive set of integrated scenarios that allow you to do many things:
1. Process file uploads by running code when a file is uploaded or changed in blob storage
2. Process data in real time by capturing and transforming data from event and IoT sources streams on the way to storage
3. Run a scheduled task by executing data clean up code on pre-defined time intervals
4. and many more functions

Using Python you are able to invoke Azure Functions Core Tools commands, such as creating and deploying functions. You can use the Azure SDK for Python to create, update, and manage Azure Functions, for example using Python to deploy a function app. Python can be used to retireve and analyze logs and metrics which are generated by Azure functions for monitoring and troubleshooting purposes. Python can be combined with Azure SDKs to create custom solutions tailored to your Azure Functions needs.

# Database Services
## Azure Database for MySQL
Azure Database for MySQL is a relational database service. It delivers:
1. Maximum control with the ability to select your scheduled maintenance window
2. Data protection using automatic backups
3. Monitoring and automation to simplify management and monitoring for large-scale deployments
These capabilites allow you to focus less on administration and are provided at no extra cost. This allows you to allocate less time and resoruces to managing virtual machines and infrastructure.

Azure SDK for Python allows you to manage your Azure Database for MySQl. Using the Azure SDK you can create, configure, and manage MySQL servers and databased in Azure. You are also able to use SQL queries and Python code to interact with your MySQL database, giving the ability to do things like retrieving, inserting, updating, and deleting data. You can use Python to manage security settings and access controls for your Azure Database for MySQL, doing things like setting up firewalls, configuring virtual network service endpoints, and managing user permissions.

## Azure Database Migration Service
Azure Database Migration Service (ADMS) is a fully managed service designed to enable seamless migrations from multiple database sources to Azure data platforms with minimal downtime (online migrations). Two versions are currently offered:
1. Database Migration Service - via Azure SQL migration extension for Azure Data Studio, Azure portal, PowerShell and Azure CLI.
2. Database Migration Service (classic) - via Azure portal, PowerShell and Azure CLI. This is an older version of the ADMS. Beginning August 1st of 2023, users will no longer be able to create new Database Migration Service (classic) resource for SQL Server scenarios from Azure portal and it will be retired on March 15th of 2026.

Python scripts can be used to create and manage migration projects in ADMS. Python can also be used to configure source and target database connections for migration tasks. You can specify connection details such as server names, authentication credentials, and database names. Python scripts can be used to perform data validation and testing after migration to ensure data integrity. You can compare source and target data using Python code to verify successful migration.
